The congress-Twitter dataset is a directed network of 475 nodes, each representing the Twitter (rebranded to X in 2023) account of a single member of the 117th United States Congress, and 13,289 edges representing interactions (i.e., retweets, quote tweets, replies, or mentions of another member’s tweet) of these accounts between February 9, 2022 and June 9, 2022. Additionally, each edge contains an associated weight, representing the empirical probability of the interaction occurring (based upon the total number of times the interaction occurred). To enhance our analysis of the dataset, additional vertex attributes were added separately. These included the name of the congressperson, their respective chamber, party affiliation, state, and Census Bureau-designated region of the state.

In this analysis, we will examine the nature of the 117th US Congress’ Twitter interactions: in particular, we will investigate how a member’s chamber, party affiliation, and the geographical location of their district impacts which members they interact with on Twitter. Moreover, we will look for the existence of community structures in the Twitter interaction network, and whether these structures—if they exist—are correlated with chamber, party affiliation, or geographical location.
The bulk majority of our analysis is performed with R, using the igraph, Matrix, tidyverse, and rjson packages.
To input the congress-Twitter data into R, the fromJSON() function from the rjson file was used to read the data in from a json file. The input data was then transformed into a dataframe, from which a list of edges was constructed. This list of edges was then converted into a directed igraph object using the graph.edgelist() function from the igraph package. Edge weights and appropriate node attributes were then added to this graph from a separately constructed dataframe. Finally, the graph was converted into an undirected and unweighted graph using the as.undirected() function. The visualization and analysis of the network was then performed primarily using igraph functions.
